all right hey hi i'm kadir kadir topal
from this work in germany
and i'm the ipfs growth and product
development lead
and um if you can go to the next slide
in november 2020 now
we asked ipfs community the ipfs
community
and that includes um uh people at
protocol labs uh we asked them to
propose uh
themes for us to focus on in 2021.
we wanted to hear from the community and
the community really delivered
it's been pretty incredible to see the
breadth and depth of the proposals
and the passion of those who
advocated for them and argued for those
proposals
so many many thanks to everyone who has
contributed
the feedback has really blown us away um
so
now we wanted to give a quick update on
the whole process
so david and i will talk a little bit
about what um what happened
uh what's currently in progress
and what to look forward to so this will
be a bit of a short update and then
we'll hopefully give you
a bigger one on the next meet up
next slide please
all right so as i just said we
the first part of this was really
reaching out to the community
and being really broad in what we asked
what
what we consider as our focus for 2021.
um so that that part is done now and uh
we have
um and we've already moved on to
analyzing that content
that that feedback um to
first identify a couple of questions
that we need to answer
um regardless of of the focus area so
things that cut across a bunch of
different proposals
so we've identified those questions and
have worked on
trying to get answers to those questions
another thing that we've done is we've
looked at
initiatives that we might prioritize
regardless of the focus area and we'll
i'll come back to those later but there
are things that
uh we would do uh regardless of
which item we pick or which themes we
pick to work on so there are of course
things that are ongoing
but there are also things that we know
we want to improve um
and uh so we've started prioritizing
those initiatives as well
and then um as a part of this uh i know
the ipfs version one was already
one of the themes and one of the
proposals uh but of course
um it it includes ipfs version one can
include
a lot of the proposed items
and so what we have started uh working
on
and this is one of those key questions
is
what would what would an ipfs version 1
look
like what would be a part of it and what
would be
what would it entail aside from just
from code changes so those are some of
the things that we have already started
looking into
and i'll let david talk a little bit
about what we are currently working on
awesome thank you kadir i'm david nice
to meet you all who
who haven't met yet and i'm located in
in phoenix arizona uh so it is pretty
pleasant weather
uh next slide please
yeah so um just to talk through what's
going on right now i know
uh we're already almost a month into
2021 and
um we're looking to nail down what the
the project's
plan for the year is uh and and help
share that with you all and get feedback
on what that is so
um right now we're exploring some use
cases uh
where you know there's so many cool
things that were suggested by the
community
oh so many directions we could head um
to help narrow that down
um having a few use cases in mind to
actually work towards
getting fit between some sort of market
and then what ipfs brings to the table
what would is is a great way to narrow
things down it moves the ball
in other ways where across many
different use cases you can see
improvements and
trying to figure out what that set looks
like um
to focus our efforts in 2021 is a goal
right now
um as a part of this once we have some
use cases in mind especially
taking the the working
set of requirements for ipfs v1 and
refining what those are kind of
narrowing the scope as much as possible
because
there's so many different ways it can go
and then
getting feedback from everyone in the
community sharing that with you all and
coming to consensus on
what that looks like uh another a key
part of this
and then um from there we can really
sift through and determine the priority
areas to tackle in 21 2021 and
a key part of this is figuring out how
to do so so
again and there's so many cool ideas
that were proposed by the community
and uh it's oh it's
kind of like efficiency is of the
essence up front
in 2021 we want to work on the things
that kind of unlocks
the ability for everyone in the
community to to
focus on the areas and and help
contribute in
ways that are most helpful for for the
way they're using ipfs and
um you know how do we do that and how
how do we unblock
and unlock the full potential of the
community that's also very much top of
mind for us so
like could you mention a lot of exciting
stuff going on
and uh you know stay tuned we should
have
a very tangible stuff for you all soon
uh could you return back to you
thank you david um let's go to the next
slide
so yeah let's talk a little bit about
what to expect uh what can you expect
from here
um so as david said we've already
started looking into narrowing the focus
a little bit
and one thing that we have seen is that
the proposals have uncovered
opportunities um for for so many
different audiences
and um of course one thing we already
know is that we're not going to focus on
just one single audience
in 2021 will hopefully be able to
offer something that actually addresses
many different audiences across
different use cases
and um one part of that one way to
actually achieve that
that we are seriously looking into at
this point is
making ipfs more modular
so that you can contribute to parts
more easily but also use parts of ips
ipfs more easily that are more relevant
to you
so the idea is that
[Music]
we structure ipfs in a way that makes it
easier
to push the things forward that
people are protocol labs people in the
community really care about
where it makes sense for them and ipfs
as a library is one thing that we are
seriously looking into to make that
possible
because yeah from all the proposals it's
clear there are so many different
audiences
and uh pro collabs on its own isn't
going to be able to
uh address every single one of them um
we we have to somewhat prioritize but
this is this is a
this is one way we can actually um
open up possib the opportunity uh for
people who really care about certain
things
um to to move forward on them to push
them forward
uh for for for us not to be the
bottleneck to those things
so that's something that you can look
forward to
another thing um i mentioned this at the
beginning is
there are things we know we want to make
better
um and that's regardless of the focus
area that we choose
there are things around the
observability
around performance around
docs and the whole developer experience
that we know are currently not as good
as they could
be and that are
areas where we definitely could do
better and those are things that we do
want to improve on regardless of um
the 2021 focus area um
so we've started prioritizing some of
those a lot of those came out of the
uh proposal process and um
so that that's something that you can
expect to happen regardless of
what we focus on
and then as david said we're currently
right in the middle of some of those
things
which means that there will be an update
and hopefully soon but
i expect the next update in the next
ipfs meetup
where we'll hopefully be able to talk
more confidently about
um the path uh that we would like to
prioritize
across the proposals that have come in
and the feedback that we have and the
conversation that we've had in the
meantime
and then hopefully we'll be able to
present something
that that's a little bit more long-term
um but yeah hopefully that's going to be
our next update